action_server/README.md, before:

# robocorp-action-server

[Robocorp Action Server](https://github.com/robocorp/robocorp#readme) is a Python framework designed to simplify the deployment
of actions (AI or otherwise).

An `action` in this case is defined as a Python function (which has inputs/outputs
defined), which is served by the `Robocorp Action Server`.

The `Robocorp Action Server` automatically generates an OpenAPI spec for your Python code, enabling different AI/LLM Agents to understand and call your Action. It also manages the Action lifecycle and provides full traceability of what happened during runs.


## 1. Install Action Server
Action Server is available as a stand-alone fully signed executable and via `pip install robocorp-action-server`.
> We recommend the executable to prevent confusion in case you have multiple/crowded Python environments, etc.

#### For macOS

```sh
# Install Robocorp Action Server
brew update
brew install robocorp/tools/action-server 
```

#### For Windows

```sh
# Download Robocorp Action Server
curl -o action-server.exe https://downloads.robocorp.com/action-server/releases/latest/windows64/action-server.exe

# Add to PATH or move to a folder that is in PATH
setx PATH=%PATH%;%CD%
```

#### For Linux

```sh
# Download Robocorp Action Server
curl -o action-server https://downloads.robocorp.com/action-server/releases/latest/linux64/action-server
chmod a+x action-server

# Add to PATH or move to a folder that is in PATH
sudo mv action-server /usr/local/bin/
```

## 2. Run your first Action

```sh
# Bootstrap a new project using this template.
# You'll be prompted for the name of the project (directory):
action-server new

# Start Action Server 
cd my-project
action-server start --expose
```

👉 You should now have an Action Server running locally at: [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080), so open that in your browser and the web UI will guide you further.

👉 Using the `--expose` -flag, you also get a public internet-facing URL (something like "https://twently-cuddly-dinosaurs.robocorp.link") and the related token. These are the details that you need to configure your AI Agent to have access to your Action

## What do you need in your Action Package

An `Action Package` is currently defined as a local folder that contains at least one Python file containing an action entry point 
(a Python function marked with `@action` -decorator from `robocorp.actions`).

The `package.yaml` file is required for specifying the Python environment and dependencies for 
your Action ([RCC](https://github.com/robocorp/rcc/) will be used to 
automatically bootstrap it and keep it updated given the `package.yaml` contents).

Note: the `package.yaml` is optional if the action server is not being used as a standalone
(i.e.: if it was pip-installed it can use the same python environment where it's installed).

### Bootstrapping a new Action

Start new projects with:

`action-server new`

Note: the `action-server` executable should be automatically added to your python installation after `pip install robocorp-action-server`, but if for some reason it wasn't pip-installed, it's also possible to use `python -m robocorp.action_server` instead of `action-server`.

After creating the project, it's possible to serve the actions under the
current directory with:

`action-server start`

For example: When running `action-server start`, the action server will scan for existing actions under the current directory, and it'll start serving those.

After it's started, it's possible to access the following URLs:

- `/index.html`: UI for the Action Server.
- `/openapi.json`: Provides the openapi spec for the action server.
- `/docs`: Provides access to the APIs available in the server and a UI to test it.


## API Reference

Information on specific functions or classes: [robocorp.action-server](https://github.com/robocorp/robocorp/blob/master/action_server/docs/api/README.md)

## Changelog

A list of releases and corresponding changes can be found in the [changelog](https://github.com/robocorp/robocorp/blob/master/action_server/docs/CHANGELOG.md).

Commit message:

Fix READMEs for all the packages: soft-wrap and line-break (#253)
* Grammarly fixes

Linefeeds by writer in readme.md create havoc in docs -site side.
When possible use VS Code Word Wrap when writing markdown to avoid manual linefeeds.

* Update windows/README.md

Co-authored-by: Cosmin Poieana <cosmin@robocorp.com>

* Update browser/README.md

Co-authored-by: Cosmin Poieana <cosmin@robocorp.com>

* Fix the `browser` README

* Typos in `browser` README

* Fix `windows` README

* Fix `meta` and main docs

* Re-order libs in `robocorp` README

* Replace `<br/>` with double-space (`  `)

* Soft-wrap and EOL normalization in every README.md

---------

Co-authored-by: Cosmin Poieana <cosmin@robocorp.com>

action_server/README.md, after:

# robocorp-action-server

[Robocorp Action Server](https://github.com/robocorp/robocorp#readme) is a Python framework designed to simplify the deployment of actions (AI or otherwise).

An `action` in this case is defined as a Python function (which has inputs/outputs defined), which is served by the `Robocorp Action Server`.

The `Robocorp Action Server` automatically generates an OpenAPI spec for your Python code, enabling different AI/LLM Agents to understand and call your Action. It also manages the Action lifecycle and provides full traceability of what happened during runs.

## 1. Install Action Server

Action Server is available as a stand-alone fully signed executable and via `pip install robocorp-action-server`.
> We recommend the executable to prevent confusion in case you have multiple/crowded Python environments, etc.

#### For macOS

```sh
# Install Robocorp Action Server
brew update
brew install robocorp/tools/action-server 
```

#### For Windows

```sh
# Download Robocorp Action Server
curl -o action-server.exe https://downloads.robocorp.com/action-server/releases/latest/windows64/action-server.exe

# Add to PATH or move to a folder that is in PATH
setx PATH=%PATH%;%CD%
```

#### For Linux

```sh
# Download Robocorp Action Server
curl -o action-server https://downloads.robocorp.com/action-server/releases/latest/linux64/action-server
chmod a+x action-server

# Add to PATH or move to a folder that is in PATH
sudo mv action-server /usr/local/bin/
```

## 2. Run your first Action

```sh
# Bootstrap a new project using this template.
# You'll be prompted for the name of the project (directory):
action-server new

# Start Action Server 
cd my-project
action-server start --expose
```

👉 You should now have an Action Server running locally at: [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080), so open that in your browser and the web UI will guide you further.

👉 Using the `--expose` -flag, you also get a public internet-facing URL (something like "https://twently-cuddly-dinosaurs.robocorp.link") and the related token. These are the details that you need to configure your AI Agent to have access to your Action

## What do you need in your Action Package

An `Action Package` is currently defined as a local folder that contains at least one Python file containing an action entry point (a Python function marked with `@action` -decorator from `robocorp.actions`).

The `package.yaml` file is required for specifying the Python environment and dependencies for your Action ([RCC](https://github.com/robocorp/rcc/) will be used to automatically bootstrap it and keep it updated given the `package.yaml` contents).

> Note: the `package.yaml` is optional if the action server is not being used as a standalone (i.e.: if it was pip-installed it can use the same python environment where it's installed).

### Bootstrapping a new Action

Start new projects with:

`action-server new`

Note: the `action-server` executable should be automatically added to your python installation after `pip install robocorp-action-server`, but if for some reason it wasn't pip-installed, it's also possible to use `python -m robocorp.action_server` instead of `action-server`.

After creating the project, it's possible to serve the actions under the current directory with:

`action-server start`

For example: When running `action-server start`, the action server will scan for existing actions under the current directory, and it'll start serving those.

After it's started, it's possible to access the following URLs:

- `/index.html`: UI for the Action Server.
- `/openapi.json`: Provides the openapi spec for the action server.
- `/docs`: Provides access to the APIs available in the server and a UI to test it.

## Documentation

Explore our [docs](https://github.com/robocorp/robocorp/tree/master/action_server/docs) for extensive documentation.

## Changelog

A list of releases and corresponding changes can be found in the [changelog](https://github.com/robocorp/robocorp/blob/master/action_server/docs/CHANGELOG.md).
